{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs22
\par\b\fs32 SchoolCRM – Full Detailed Documentation\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 1. Project Overview\b0\fs22\par
\par SchoolCRM is a role-based school management system built with PHP, MySQL, Bootstrap, and shared frontend assets. It supports three core personas:
\par\tab\bullet\tab **Student**: views attendance, marks, homework, notifications, timetable, fee info.
\par\tab\bullet\tab **Teacher**: records attendance, publishes homework and announcements, updates marks.
\par\tab\bullet\tab **Admin**: governs users, academic operations, approvals, permissions, analytics, planning.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 2. Architecture and Folder Responsibilities\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs24 2.1 Entry and compatibility layer\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab `index.php` — common login UI.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Root compatibility wrappers (e.g., `adminDashboard.php`, `FeeDetails.php`) keep older links working and delegate to `modules/...`.
\par
\par\b\fs24 2.2 Role modules\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab `student/` — student-first pages and role-specific workflows.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `teacher/` — teacher-first pages and data-entry workflows.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `admin/` — admin governance + operations pages.
\par
\par\b\fs24 2.3 Shared/cross-cutting\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab `backoffice/` — login, logout, password/session paths and legacy aliases.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `forms/` — submission and AJAX endpoints.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `config/` — database wiring.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `middleware/` — access checks.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `assets/` — CSS/JS/vendor dependencies.
\par\tab\bullet\tab `modules/` — reorganized legacy page implementations grouped by domain.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 3. Authentication and Session Flow\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 3.1 Login flow\b0\fs22\par
\par 1. User opens `index.php`.
\par 2. Submits username, password, and role.
\par 3. `backoffice/login.php` validates credentials against `user_login`.
\par 4. On success, session variables are set (`access`, `name`, `id`).
\par 5. Redirect target depends on role:
\par    - student → student dashboard route
\par    - teacher → `teacher/dashboard.php`
\par    - admin → `admin/dashboard.php`
\par
\par\b\fs28 3.2 Legacy admin route compatibility\b0\fs22\par
\par To support older bookmarks/redirects, these compatibility entrypoints exist:
\par\tab\bullet\tab `backoffice/adminDashBoard.php`
\par\tab\bullet\tab `backoffice/adminDashboard.php`
\par
\par Both load `admin/dashboard.php`.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 4. Feature Documentation by Persona\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 4.1 Student features\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs24 Dashboard\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Overview cards/charts and academic summaries.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `student/studentDashboard.php`
\par   - legacy: `modules/dashboards/studentDashboard.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Attendance\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Daily status and historical attendance.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `student/attendance.php`
\par   - support: `backoffice/attendanceToday.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Marks + report cards\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Subject marks display by exam/term.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Report card rendering and PDF export support.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `student/marks.php`
\par   - `modules/student/academic/reportCard.php`
\par   - `modules/student/academic/reportCard_pdf.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Homework + notifications\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Reads class/school assignments and notices.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `student/homework.php`
\par   - `student/notifications.php`
\par   - shared feeds: `modules/communication/homework.php`, `modules/communication/announcements.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Timetable + fee details\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Accesses schedule and fee detail screens.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `modules/student/academic/TimeTable.php`
\par   - `modules/student/academic/FeeDetails.php`
\par
\par\b\fs28 4.2 Teacher features\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs24 Dashboard and profile\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Teacher overview and profile management.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `teacher/dashboard.php`
\par   - `teacher/teacher_profile.php`
\par   - includes: `teacher/includes/*`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Attendance operations\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Records attendance and updates entries.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `teacher/attendance.php`
\par   - `forms/submitAttendance.php`
\par   - `forms/updateAttendanceAjax.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Marks operations\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Adds marks and reviews student records.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `teacher/add_marks.php`
\par   - `teacher/view_studentData.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Communication operations\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Publishes announcements and homework.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `teacher/add_announcement.php`
\par   - `teacher/add_homework.php`
\par
\par\b\fs28 4.3 Admin features\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs24 Core shell\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `admin/index.php`
\par   - `admin/dashboard.php`
\par   - `admin/includes/*`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Governance + control\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Approval, delegation, permissions, security, governance, and data quality.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `admin/approvals.php`
\par   - `admin/delegation.php`
\par   - `admin/permissions.php`
\par   - `admin/security.php`
\par   - `admin/attendance_governance.php`
\par   - `admin/data_quality.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Academic administration\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Master entities and academic operation pages.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `admin/students.php`
\par   - `admin/teachers.php`
\par   - `admin/attendance.php`
\par   - `admin/exams.php`
\par   - `admin/marks.php`
\par   - `admin/homework.php`
\par
\par\b\fs24 Planning + insights\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Files:
\par   - `admin/planner.php`
\par   - `admin/analytics.php`
\par   - `admin/notification_center.php`
\par   - `admin/bulk_ops.php`
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 5. Database Notes\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Default DB name appears as `asimos` in app code.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Update credentials in `config/db.php` (and any hardcoded local configs if present).
\par\tab\bullet\tab Ensure required tables are imported before first login.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 6. Local Setup (Developer)\b0\fs22\par
\par 1. Install PHP 8+ and MySQL.
\par 2. Place repo under web root (e.g., `htdocs/Asimos` for XAMPP).
\par 3. Import DB schema/data.
\par 4. Configure DB credentials.
\par 5. Open `/Asimos/index.php` and test each role login.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 7. Troubleshooting\b0\fs22\par
\par
\par\b\fs24 404 on old routes\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Use compatibility endpoints in `backoffice/` and root wrappers.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Verify Apache document root points to the project folder.
\par
\par\b\fs24 Login fails\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Confirm role selected at login matches user role in DB.
\par\tab\bullet\tab Confirm DB connectivity and table data.
\par
\par\b\fs24 Blank pages\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Enable PHP errors in local dev and check Apache/PHP error logs.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 8. Contribution Guide (Where to Add Code)\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Student functionality: `student/` or `modules/student/academic/`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Teacher functionality: `teacher/`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Admin functionality: `admin/`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Shared account/session logic: `backoffice/` or `modules/common/account/`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Submission/AJAX endpoints: `forms/`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Shared frontend resources: `assets/`
\par
\par Keep root mostly for top-level entrypoints and compatibility wrappers.
\par
\par------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par\b\fs28 9. Documentation Map\b0\fs22\par
\par\tab\bullet\tab Full project document: this file (`docs/PROJECT_DOCUMENTATION.md`)
\par\tab\bullet\tab Functional summary: `docs/FUNCTIONALITIES.md`
\par\tab\bullet\tab Structure map: `docs/STRUCTURE.md`
\par\tab\bullet\tab User operations guide: `docs/USER_GUIDE.md`
}